---
layout: post
published: true
category: updates
title: Assignment 19
author: Xiaofan Ye
---
Experimenting with text-mining software

The article I am experimenting with text-mining tools is a research paper: 'It's the Image That Is Imperfect: Advertising and Its Impact on Women' written by Indhu Rajagopal and Jennifer Gales in 2002. 

Voyant Tools:
It's efficient in generating and visualizing the main repetitive terms of a given text, which are 'women' and 'advertising.' However, these terms are already apparent in the text's title, which doesn't offer the user any deeper insights into the text. Another feature of the Voyant Tools is to count the number of times certain words repeated themselves and extract the pattern into different forms of displays (area, column, line, stacked bar). This feature is helpful if the given text is an unorganized data set (such as comments by people on Twitter), and it can immediately present the hottest keywords and trends in those texts and vividly create dynamic diagrams to show the data. However, as my experimented text is a research paper, in which single-segmented keywords like 'look', 'women', 'way', and 'girls' doesn't provide a better understanding of the text. 

JStor Text Analyzer:
It effectively analyzes the research paper and offers more profound insights into the research topic; it also has a recommendation feature that presents the user with related articles. The keywords it gave are 'television commercials' instead of 'ads' in the previous analyzer tool; the more detailed term lets the user know what type of ads the research paper focuses on and would narrow down the research scope. Furthermore, the key terms it generated are phrases instead of words, which is more focused and effective for researchers. Moreover, the user can adjust the search result by changing the weights of each term. Therefore, the JStor analyzer is much more productive in assisting the research process, while Voyant Tools is more powerful in organizing and visualization of random data sets.
