{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11905\paperh16837\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh18000\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ---\
layout: post\
published: true\
category: commentary\
title: >-\
  Reading Assignment - Digital_Humanities - Chapter 1 (Graduates): Elva Si\
author: Elva Si\
tags:\
  - Digital_Humanities\
---\
### Visualization and Data Design\
Data visualization could be a powerful tool to process digital humanities information. If well used, data visualization can make persuasive visual arguments and allow some new trends or information to emerge. However, before being widely used among digital humanists, we need to ensure everyone has visual literacy: they can understand, analyze, evaluate, and create visualized data using bar and pie charts, diagrams, trees, and grids. Another interesting feature on visualization is the use of experiential visualization. It is enlightening to see how we can visualize not only quantitative data but also qualitative data. The pictorial convention of visual representations can engage people in an immersive environment and experience past incidents much more closely.\
\
### Humanities Gaming\
Humanities gaming will have a significant impact on digital humanities. Digital games can embed a robust archival set of humanistic knowledge into visual games, where competence, fun, and engagement remain. Games can be a great source to immerse in a simulated, mostly historical, context and to ignite enthusiasm to learn more. When students play digital humanistic games, they can explore information through playing and make mistakes at no expense. Moreover, digital humanistic games would guarantee the ubiquity of networks and mobile connectivity so that everyone around the globe would be able to access the humanistic content and connect with others who share similar interests.}