---
layout: post
published: false
category: updates
title: Assignment 7_ Data Scholarship in the Humanities _ Li
---
The first important thought I have about data is that "**size matters**" and I also believe that access is crucial, as there are few archaeologists and anthropologists, and thus few data are collected. I believe that the primary purpose of digital data is to classify and organize the information, as well as to find the relevant pattern or use the data to support certain theories; however, if the collected data is insufficient, it will be unable to find the pattern and will impede the development of related disciplines. In my final project, I believe there are enough samples to generate data, but there is insufficient personnel for systematic research and collection, resulting in a small database; I also believe that in addition to size, accessibility is extremely important. Without access to the data, it is impossible for scholars to collect and analyze the data. Access to public data is particularly difficult in China due to government restrictions and a lack of relevant sharing platforms. 

Regarding **interpretation and reinterpretation** is the second topic that intrigues me. In some disciplines, reinterpretation is even more valuable than raw data. The value of interpretation and reinterpretation varies across disciplines. The content of these reinterpretations, I believe, will become so-called raw data in the future, when scholars examine our thinking logic and thinking habits by analyzing the content of our current reinterpretations. With the exception of a few scientific guidelines, I think that the majority of the content of the reinterpretation is more interesting, although the scientific guidelines we have identified may not be the actual guidelines. 

Finally, a discussion of **provenance** follows. The text examines the ownership of artifacts and the resulting disputes. In the Web3 era, I associate this with the ownership of NFTs. Currently, the purchaser of an NFT owns the token itself, which is a record of the rights to the underlying digital version of the work it corresponds to; therefore, when an NFT is transferred to another party, the underlying digital version of the work is also transferred. Nevertheless, it is obvious that the user's rights to the NFT itself are more restricted. For instance, users cannot refer purchased NFTs to their own virtual coin wallets and cannot easily transfer them for a fee through the platform where they were purchased; therefore, does the NFT purchaser possess ownership rights to the NFT token itself?