---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: Assignment 22
author: Omozusi Guobadia
---

Featherstone’s Archive Paper
The bounds for what is considered an archive are widely expanding with the addition of internet storage mediums. It is to the degree that I didn't even know that archives was a government defined entity, as Featherstone described it, as I thought it was just a means of organized storage. 
The transition of archives from physical to digital can be an active parallel to the transition of archives after smaller nations ceded archives to larger nations due to war. The same arguments, such as the rights to determine what remains in the archive as well as who has control over determining that, can be applied to the internet from physical archive debate. 
I did not know that archives were intrinsically political entities, originally utilized to categorize populational data. But it is no wonder as to why the debate on what information remains in an archive and what gets removed stemmed from a transition over to what type of information is contained within the archive. In terms of population data, one has no reason to debate whether to remove someone’s information from the registry in an archive. 

Wolfgang Ernst Dynamic Media Memories
The concept of an archive has drastically changed from a fixed storage entity to a constantly changing entity, due to the hardware used to write and store the information. This is an incredible insight, especially if someone is not familiar with the flaws of electronics, as devices change and break down over time. But with the logic he uses, although the paper is more durable than a single storage unit, it also breaks down over time, so does that mean the concept of archives has always been a constantly changed entity? Or is the concept of time by the user in play when someone identifies an object as fixed/stationary, and another defines it as changing? 
Archives become just a transfer of data through the advent of the internet? I don’t know how much I can agree with this notion. Although the speed at which one grabs data from storage is incredibly decreased, the process of searching for the data still exists nonetheless. 
