---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: Assignment 21- reading- Sally Chen
author: Sally Chen
---
I think Generative Design can help generate the visualization that the user wants - by choosing different variants to limit the type of presented data and the way it is presented for the purpose of illustrating a problem or supporting a point of view, etc. This design framework is more effective when data types are abundant and "complete" as users can obtain outcomes in all combinations of variants. In addition to being able to quickly and easily acquire visualizations, I think another advantage of using the generative design is that it can facilitate users to explore previously unnoticed visualization models that may be valuable. For example, the Task classification in matrix 1 may facilitate designers to consider more tasks that users can do with the interface. Overall, as the demand for visualization of digital archives rises in academia and the mass, it is significantly meaningful to develop such a generative design. On the one hand, it can help scholars to explore and visualize archive data initially without long coding time. On the other hand, this design can be applied in exhibitions or museums which are facing the general public to present historical perspectives.
Since our project is a map-based visualization, I think the design matrixes in the article can help us to figure out the way we want to present our data and what kinds of content should be primary and which ones are secondary during our brainstorming phase. The brainstorming process based on the design matrixes needs to consider how to integrate the different kinds of visualization into one interface in an effective and simple way while taking into account the user experience.